Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
"Mr. Trump has said very clearly for months now a policy that's been ignored, which is that he believes that we need to have a temporary suspension to stop refugees from coming in from countries where terrorist activities are rampant or in a war. That's the issue, not the Khan family loss which we all regret, not the loss of many other American families which we all regret. The issue is how to protect the homeland. And the second part of the issue which is being ignored is the cause of these losses, because it forced our American military to go back into Iraq, to go into Syria and that cause was the policies that were put together in January of 2009 by President Clinton and Secretary Obama that caused ISIS to rise.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"Frankly, what Secretary Clinton did in her speech on Thursday was totally ignoring it. She sees an America that, ""Morning in America,"" as she said. It's not morning in America. And if it's midnight in America, like she accused Mr. Clinton of, it's the policies of Obama and Clinton that caused it to be midnight. Mr. Trump has neither position.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"This is not a temperament issue. The Clinton campaign needs to try to make it into a temperament issue for one reason because they know that over 70 percent of the American people don't believe a thing she says. And so, therefore, her putting up policies that she's going to do have no credibility.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"Her talking about the Obama Administration has done a great job and deserves an A on the economy. I mean, please, let's talk to American families and sit around the dinner table at night figuring how to pay their bills. The American economy is not in good shape; productivity is failing.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"The focus of NCPAC was to use all the tools of a campaign, but instead of having a candidate, to use it through a political action committee.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"Roger's the first one who introduced us to Donald, and Donald was one of our clients at Black, Manafort, Stone in the early 80s and was a client of ours for a long time.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"What we were doing was sort of trying to use our relationships that we had built up, first through Young Republicans and then through NCPAC, and to create a business that would focus on political consulting.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
"I will stipulate for the purpose of today that, you know, you could characterize this as influence peddling.",Paul Manafort,Conservatives
