Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
"Hot, insatiable lady and her handsome body builder husband, experienced swingers, seek similar couples or exceptional muscular well-hung single men. She's 40DD-24-36; he's 195, trim, blonde, muscular and 8' +. Prefer military, bodybuilders, jocks. No smokers or fats please. Photo and phone required. R&N....We are interested in DC, VA. MD, NYC, Miami, and LA.'",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"An exhaustive investigation now indicates that a domestic employee who I discharged for substance abuse on the second time that we learned that he had a drug problem is the perpetrator who had access to my home, access to my computer, access to my password, access to my postage meter, access to my post-office box key.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"Hot Cuban Pussy. Miami Lady 40-24-36 has an insatiable hunger for huge hung black Cock. She is 5'4"", with huge tits, small waist, hot ass, shaved pussy with giant clit and big floppy pussy lips. She likes it hard, deep and nasty. Obidient husband shares her cunt. You must be 22-40, lean, muscular and hung like a horse. Hygiene and attitude count. 100% real. Contact me/us with a photo of face/body/meat.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"I met Donald in 1979 when I was sent to New York to organize Ronald Reagan's campaign for President. He and his father Fred Trump were members of the Reagan for President finance committee. We became good friends. I was invited to two of his weddings. He attended my wedding in Washington DC. He is very smart, very tough and can be very very funny. He is also very tall.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
I strongly support Donald Trump for President. I think only Trump has the financial independence to take on the special interests. Trump doesn't need the lobbyists or the special interest money with the strings attached. He is the only one who can fix a broken system. Trump's pro-growth tax reform plan will supercharge the economy. Trump can actually cut waste because he is not beholden to the special pleaders. Trump will get in Hillary's face and confront her with her lies. Jeb gave Hillary a medal. The Bush and Clinton families profiteer off public service together. Is it civility or shared criminality? Only Trump can make America great again!,Roger Stone,Conservatives
"The only thing worse in politics than being wrong is being boring, as Dick Nixon would say.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
I launched the idea of Donald J. Trump for President.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
"He who speaks first, loses.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"Attack, attack, attack—never defend.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"Admit nothing, deny everything, launch counterattack.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
The point that the Democrats missed was that the people who weren’t rich wanted to be rich.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
The Democrats are the party of slavery; the Republicans are the party of freedom.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
"When that whole thing hit the fan in 1996, the reason I gave a blanket denial was that my grandparents were still alive,I’m not guilty of hypocrisy. I’m a libertarian and a libertine.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
It's better to be infamous than never to be famous at all.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
"I went to the cafeteria, and as each kid would go through the cafeteria line [in my elementary school] with their tray, I would tell them, ""You know, Nixon has proposed having school on Saturdays."" ...[T]he mock election [in my elementary school] was held and to the surprise of the local newspaper, Democrat John Kennedy swept this mock election. For the first time ever I understood the value of disinformation.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"We could only give a Senate campaign, in a direct financial transfer of $5,000. But the loophole was, we could advertise on behalf of a candidate, without their cooperation or coordination, an unlimited amount. And that's why NCPAC [which Stone helped found in 1975] was successful.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"Well, my attitude regarding those who criticize me for being friends with Roy Cohn or Richard Nixon is, ""F—'em.""",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"After the Reform Party cost the Republicans the White House in '92, again in '96... Yeah, I may have played some role in derailing them as a party.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
"Yeah, I live a pretty Machiavellian life, and I'm a sceptic. I tend to believe the worst of people because I understand human nature. Human nature has never changed. That's why one of Stone's rules is that hate is a stronger motivator than love.",Roger Stone,Conservatives
Corey is now openly telling people he's got the goods on me. ...He's telling reporters that he has something on Manafort that will blow him out of the campaign. ...We gotta take the little prick out.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
I’m an agent provocateur.,Roger Stone,Conservatives
