,Author,Political Orientation,Quotes,Unnamed: 0,auto
0,Paul Weyrich,Right,"For one, the Qur'an is considered by Muslims to consist entirely of words spoken by Allah himself.",41,0
1,Paul Weyrich,Right,"It is commonly agreed that children spend more hours per year watching television than in the classroom, and far less in actual conversation with their parents.",42,0
2,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Politics aside, it will be hard for any new liberal radio network to outdo the professionalism of NPR.",43,0
3,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Absent scandal, a federal judge can serve for decades on the bench, underscoring the importance of appointing judges who have a proper understanding of their constitutional role.",44,0
4,Paul Weyrich,Right,Advertisers are very wary of ideological media.,45,0
5,Paul Weyrich,Right,Both Christians and religious Jews are finding it increasingly difficult to practice their faiths through college groups on so-called mainline campuses in the United States.,46,0
6,Paul Weyrich,Right,"But the threat posed by the radical Islamists represents an unusual conflict, unlike any experienced by our nation before: we face an enemy that is not a state.",47,0
7,Paul Weyrich,Right,CAIR officials or former officials have been arrested on charges related to terrorism yet all it offers is silence and stonewalling in discussing what are its real motives.,48,0
8,Paul Weyrich,Right,Cameras in classrooms are no substitute for greater authority by parents and teachers.,49,0
9,Paul Weyrich,Right,Conservative talk radio works because there are lots of conservatives who are convinced that they are not getting the whole story from the regular media.,50,0
10,Paul Weyrich,Right,Conservative voters increasingly understand that the one legacy a president can leave is his judicial appointments.,51,0
11,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Despite being able to demonstrate a very large audience, major advertisers at first wouldn't touch Limbaugh.",52,0
12,Paul Weyrich,Right,Every Arab nation votes against us at least two thirds of the time.,53,0
13,Paul Weyrich,Right,"How it is that within 60 days of a general election issue, groups can no longer tell voters that a Member of Congress votes pro-abortion, against guns, against the environment or whatever else is beyond me.",54,0
14,Paul Weyrich,Right,If a liberal News channel were launched it would fall flat on its face.,55,0
15,Paul Weyrich,Right,"If liberals want to send tens of millions of dollars down the drain, I have no problem with that.",56,0
16,Paul Weyrich,Right,"In the past, children learned their values at home, reinforced by organizations such as the Boy Scouts and, of course, their church or synagogue, but in all too many families that is no longer the case.",57,0
17,Paul Weyrich,Right,Judges were not the biggest issue for most voters in Georgia in 2002.,58,0
18,Paul Weyrich,Right,Many Muslims honor people of other faiths and do not kill.,59,0
19,Paul Weyrich,Right,Many nations are like rebellious teenagers who try to figure out just how many times they can kick us in the teeth while still taking our money.,60,0
20,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Now the truth is, a president really can't control the economy, although his policies do have some effect on it.",61,0
21,Paul Weyrich,Right,Policy makers still think that if we just hand out more money the world's problems will be solved.,62,0
22,Paul Weyrich,Right,Politicians often lie.,63,0
23,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Radical Islamic fundamentalists harbor contempt for our democratic way of life and, given the opportunity, will stop at nothing to accomplish their goal of bringing our country to its knees.",64,0
24,Paul Weyrich,Right,"Second, a quarter to a third of those who listen to Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity are liberals.",65,0
25,Paul Weyrich,Right,Self-professed conservatives comprise about 40% to 45% of the electorate.,66,0
26,Steve Bannon,Right,Islam is not a religion of peace. Islam is a religion of submission. Islam means submit.,93,0
27,Steve Bannon,Right,"The baby boomers are the most spoiled, most self-centered, most narcissistic generation the country's ever produced.",94,0
28,Steve Bannon,Right,Birth control makes women unattractive and crazy.,95,0
29,Steve Bannon,Right,"What I find shocking is that there's this thought process that Hillary Clinton is going to be president of the United States, and to even think of Donald Trump is a joke.",96,0
30,Steve Bannon,Right,I became a huge Reagan admirer.,97,0
31,Steve Bannon,Right,Darkness is good. Dick Cheney. Darth Vader. Satan. That's power.,98,0
32,Steve Bannon,Right,"Remember Circuit City? Bear Stearns? Lehman Brothers? Sports Authority? Once, all were billion-dollar companies - then gone in a moment. The fatal problem might be fraud or corruption, but more often, it's simply that management didn't see 'over the other side of the hill.'",99,0
33,Steve Bannon,Right,"I'm a Leninist. Lenin wanted to destroy the state, and that's my goal, too.",100,0
34,Steve Bannon,Right,I've got a cure for mental health issue. Spank your children more.,101,0
35,Steve Bannon,Right,"George Clooney, who is a moron, came here to Cannes and gave a press conference saying, 'Under no circumstances will Trump ever be president. Hillary Clinton will be the next president.' Well, we can't wait to make George Clooney eat his words.",102,0
36,Steve Bannon,Right,The swamp is a business model. It's a successful business model.,103,0
37,Steve Bannon,Right,"I'm not a white nationalist, I'm a nationalist. I'm an economic nationalist.",104,0
38,Steve Bannon,Right,"My old firm, Goldman Sachs - traditionally, the best banks are leveraged 8:1. When we had the financial crisis in 2008, the investment banks were leveraged 35:1. Those rules had specifically been changed by a guy named Hank Paulson. He was secretary of Treasury.",105,0
39,Steve Bannon,Right,A country is more than an economy. We're a civic society.,106,0
40,Steve Bannon,Right,"There is a growing global anti-establishment revolt against the permanent political class at home and the global elites that influence them, which impacts everyone from Lubbock, Texas, to London, England.",107,0
41,Steve Bannon,Right,Trump is a product of a seething populism and nationalism that is the driving political force.,108,0
42,Steve Bannon,Right,"The longer they talk about identity politics, I got 'em. I want them to talk about racism every day. If the Left is focused on race and identity, and we go with economic nationalism, we can crush the Democrats.",109,0
43,Steve Bannon,Right,I think anger is a good thing.,110,0
44,Steve Bannon,Right,"Ethno-nationalism - it's losers. It's a fringe element. I think the media plays it up too much, and we gotta help crush it, you know, eh, help crush it more.",111,0
45,Steve Bannon,Right,Planned Parenthood has amassed a Third Reich-style death count completely legally and while pocketing half a billion dollars a year to do so.,112,0
46,Steve Bannon,Right,"This accumulated debt at all levels of our society poses an immediate existential threat to America. Now unlike the manufactured crises of global warming and healthcare, this is a true crisis. This crisis threatens the very sovereignty of our country.",113,0
47,Steve Bannon,Right,There is voter fraud. I know there is voter fraud.,114,0
48,Steve Bannon,Right,Fear is a good thing. Fear is going to lead you to take action.,115,0
49,Steve Bannon,Right,"This country is in a crisis. And if you're fighting to save this country, if you're fighting to take this country back, it's not going to be sunshine and patriots. It's going to be people who want to fight. I mean, Andrew Breitbart was all about the fight.",116,0
50,Steve Bannon,Right,"Technology not only allows grassroots conservatives like Palin to get their message across without the mainstream media's filter and become a 'force multiplier,' it also helps them topple candidates financially backed by the establishment.",117,0
51,Steve Bannon,Right,"Our definition of the alt-right is younger people who are anti-globalists, very nationalist, terribly anti-establishment.",118,0
78,Paul Weyrich,Right,"So many of our Christians have what I call the goo-goo syndrome: good government. They want everybody to vote. I don't want everybody to vote. Elections are not won by a majority of people, they never have been from the beginning of our country and they are not now. As a matter of fact, our leverage in the elections quite candidly goes up as the voting populace goes down.",15,0
79,Paul Weyrich,Right,"I believe that we probably have lost the culture war. That doesn't mean the war is not going to continue, and that it isn't going to be fought on other fronts. But in terms of society in general, we have lost. This is why, even when we win in politics, our victories fail to translate into the kind of policies we believe are important.Therefore, what seems to me a legitimate strategy for us to follow is to look at ways to separate ourselves from the institutions that have been captured by the ideology of Political Correctness, or by other enemies of our traditional culture. I would point out to you that the word ""holy"" means ""set apart,"" and that it is not against our tradition to be, in fact, ""set apart."" You can look in the Old Testament, you can look at Christian history. You will see that there were times when those who had our beliefs were definitely in the minority and it was a band of hardy monks who preserved the culture while the surrounding society disintegrated.What I mean by separation is, for example, what the homeschoolers have done. Faced with public school systems that no longer educate but instead ""condition"" students with the attitudes demanded by Political Correctness, they have seceded. They have separated themselves from public schools and have created new institutions, new schools, in their homes.",16,0
80,David Duke,Right,The greatest American who ever lived has been shot down and killed.,125,0
81,David Duke,Right,"White people don't need a law against rape, but if you fill this room up with your normal black bucks, you would, because niggers are basically primitive animals.",126,0
82,David Duke,Right,Our clear goal must be the advancement of the white race and separation of the white and black races. This goal must include freeing of the American media and government from subservient Jewish interests.,127,0
83,David Duke,Right,"What we really want to do is to be left alone. We don't want Negroes around. We don't need Negroes around. We're not asking— you know, we don't want to have them, you know, for our culture. We simply want our own country and our own society. That's in no way exploitive at all. We want our own society, our own nation….",128,0
84,David Duke,Right,"Did you ever notice how many survivors they have? Did you ever notice that? Everybody — every time you turn around, 15,000 survivors meet here; 400 survivors convention there. I mean, did you ever notice? Nazis sure were inefficient, weren't they? Boy, boy, boy!...You almost have no survivors that ever say they saw a gas chamber or saw the workings of a gas chamber.... they'll say these preposterous stories that anybody can check out to be a lie, an absolute lie.",129,0
85,David Duke,Right,I won my constituency. I won 55% of the white vote.,130,0
86,David Duke,Right,"As for America and the rest of European world, I want to live in a nation that reflects my traditions and values, and I do not want my people to become a minority in the nations my own forefathers built. Interestingly, that is same goal that most Israelis and most Jews who support Israel endorse for the Jewish state.",131,0
87,David Duke,Right,"I don’t want to see this country resemble or look like or become like Mexico. Mexico is great to visit, I’ve been there a few times. I respect all peoples of the world.",132,0
88,David Duke,Right,"I’m often called, so often called in the media, it’s like a part of my name “white supremacist” or whatever. I’m not one. I don’t want white people to be supreme. I don’t believe, in fact, that we should even have bases in 65 countries of the world I don’t think we should be in Iraq. I don’t believe we should try to control politics of the South American countries or the Southeast Asia or in Africa, or anywhere else in the world. But I do think we have a right to preserve our own culture, own heritage in our own country.",133,0
89,David Duke,Right,"I don’t see any moral difference between a suicide bomber and somebody in a F-16 fighter jet who fires a missile into an apartment complex and then kills 10 or 15 little girls and boys. I don’t see much difference there. In fact, I think the pilot is a greater offender, you know, he’s getting medals, while the suicide bomber is sacrificing his life for what he believes in. But I don’t agree with either approach. I’m absolutely opposed to any sort of terrorism. (…) But if you call Hezbollah a terrorist organization, then you must call Israel a terrorist organization.",134,0
90,David Duke,Right,"I am opposed to globalism, I am opposed to colonialism, I am opposed to any sort of complusion of one nation over another. (...) I also deeply believe in human rights.",135,0
91,David Duke,Right,"I don't consider myself a racist, I don't hate other peoples, but I certainly want to preserve my own. And I think that's true of all people.",136,0
92,David Duke,Right,"I am not opposed to all Jews. That's how they do with me, they distort everything I say, but I'm certainly opposed to Jewish extremism. Just as I am opposed to certain Islamic fundamentalism. I'm opposed to terrorism, I'm opposed to oppression of individuals. But the media, because of the incredible Jewish extremist domination in the media, especially American media and the Hollywood media, we seldom hear about Jewish fundamentalism, we seldom hear about Jewish extremism. (...) We don't hear this in the media, because they in fact dominate the media.",137,0
93,David Duke,Right,"Terrorism does not happen in a vacuum. And we would not be subject to and endangered by so-called terrorism within our own countries if we in fact kept our countries as our own heritage, our own value system. The recent terror plot in Britain, for instance was launched mostly, almost entirely by Muslims of non-European descent, who were born in Britain. Born in Britain, because of the immigration policies of our countries.",138,0
94,David Duke,Right,"I have spoken all over the world and I have great respect for Muslims, I have great respect for the African people, I have respect for the other races. Even back home in Lousiana, I'm called a racist, but I have respect for the Black people of my country and I want them to have their own life, too, and I want them to be able to pursue their own destiny and not be controlled, and not be damaged.",139,0
95,David Duke,Right,Ilhan Omar is NOW the most important Member of the US Congress!,140,0
96,Steve Bannon,Right,"There is a growing global anti-establishment revolt against the permanent political class at home, and the global elites that influence them, which impacts everyone from Lubbock, Tex., to London, England...We look at London and Texas as two fronts in our current cultural and political war.",141,0
97,Steve Bannon,Right,We should just go buck wild...Let the grassroots turn on the hate because that’s the ONLY thing that will make them do their duty.,142,0
98,Steve Bannon,Right,"We don’t like to try to guess what’s going to happen in the future, but I’ve got to tell you, I think people were very engaged in this election, and I think will be very engaged as time goes forward. The key is to hold people accountable. The hobbits, or the deplorables, had a great run in ’16. Everybody mocked them and ridiculed them, and now they’ve spoken. I think ’17 is going to be a very exciting year,",143,0
99,Steve Bannon,Right,"The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for a while...I want you to quote this, the media here is the opposition party. They don't understand this country. They still do not understand why Donald Trump is the president of the United States... The elite media got it dead wrong, 100 percent dead wrong. [The 2016 election was] a humiliating defeat that they will never wash away, that will always be there...You’re the opposition party. Not the Democratic Party. You’re the opposition party. The media’s the opposition party.",144,0
100,Steve Bannon,Right,"[Re Spicer loss of credibility] Are you kidding me? We think that's a badge of honor. 'Questioning his integrity' are you kidding me? The media has zero integrity, zero intelligence, and no hard work.",145,0
101,Steve Bannon,Right,"We call ourselves ‘the Fight Club.’ You don’t come to us for warm and fuzzy. We think of ourselves as virulently anti-establishment, particularly ‘anti-’ the permanent political class. We say Paul Ryan was grown in a petri dish at the Heritage Foundation. We hire people who are freaks. They don’t have social lives. They’re junkies about news and information.",146,0
102,Steve Bannon,Right,"When two-thirds or three-quarters of the C.E.O.s in Silicon Valley are from South Asia or from Asia, I think . . . A country is more than an economy. We’re a civic society.",147,0
103,Steve Bannon,Right,"And we’re at the very beginning stages of a very brutal and bloody conflict, of which if the people in this room, the people in the church, do not bind together and really form what I feel is an aspect of the church militant, to really be able to not just stand with our beliefs, but to fight for our beliefs against this new barbarity that’s starting, that will completely eradicate everything that we’ve been bequeathed over the last 2,000, 2,500 years. ... Now that call converges with something we have to face, and it’s a very unpleasant topic, but we are in an outright war against jihadist Islamic fascism. And this war is, I think, metastasizing far quicker than governments can handle it.",148,0
104,Steve Bannon,Right,"Until we have the black working class and the Hispanic working class getting high-value-added jobs, we've failed as a society. To me: citizens first. And we don't need a million immigrants in this country. Particularly, we don't need a million immigrants that don't come with a real set of skills.",149,0
105,Steve Bannon,Right,"If Bernie Sanders had an ounce of [Michael] Avenatti’s fearlessness, he would’ve been the Democratic nominee, and we would have had a much tougher time beating him. Now, I don’t believe a professional politician is going to be there at the end of the day. I’ve always said it’s going to be someone like Oprah, or Avenatti, or somebody that’s more media-savvy that’s going to be there.",150,0
1598,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,"I have prophesied for years that I was born for a Great War; that if I did not witness the coming of the Second American Civil War, I would begin it myself.",26,0
1599,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,I did sacrifice a goat. I know that's probably a quibble in the mind of most Americans.,27,0
1600,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,I totally understand I'm an eccentric person; I'm not going to claim to be a normal person.,29,0
1601,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,To circumscribe our freedom of thought because of the delicate sensibilities of suburban paper pushers is the most despicable type of totalitarian tyranny imaginable.,30,0
1602,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,"I think it's disingenuous for people to talk in their living rooms about government collapsing, the possibility of total anarchy, but when someone says it in public, it's so terrifying they have to persecute that person.",31,0
1603,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,"We now enter a new age of American history, and the question to be answered is this: Will we restore the republic our forefathers created, or will we allow it to be annihilated by those who hate America, its history, and all it stands for?",32,0
1604,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,"It has been said that I am not a 'real' Libertarian. A certain faction of the Party has come to believe that the writings of Ayn Rand and Milton Friedman are the holy texts of Libertarianism, and I disagree. I believe that the Libertarian movement is and should be more encompassing than the narrow-minded advocacy of economic anarchy.",33,0
1605,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,"I don't think I'm the only person who sees a cataclysm coming, but I think I'm the only person saying it, and I think that scares people.",34,0
1606,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,My accent really comes out when I'm speaking in public or when I'm passionate about something.,35,0
1607,Augustus Sol Invictus,Right,Ninety-nine percent of the things that seem weird in my life can be answered with my religion. Paganism is mostly about nature-worship. It's about being in harmony with your environment and bringing the world of spirit and world of man together. It's about balance.,36,0
