Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
"Slowly at first, and now in growing numbers, from Maine to Alabama to California, from ghettos, suburbs and schools, young Americans are coming to Canada to resist the draft.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"There is no draft in Canada. The last time they tried it was World War Two, when tens of thousands of Canadians refused to register. Faded ""Oppose Conscription"" signs can still be seen along the Toronto waterfront. The mayor of Montreal was jailed for urging Canadians to resist – and was re-elected from jail. No one expects a draft again. It's a different country, Canada.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"We have not tried to sell you on Canada – our chapter on climate is chilling – but the truth is that Canada is a nice place to be. There is little discrimination by Canadians against draft resisters, and there is a surprising amount of sympathy. Most Americans lead the same lives in Canada they would have led in the U.S. Americans who immigrate are not just rejecting one society; they are adopting another. Is it really freer? Most draft resisters – and most Canadians – think so.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"It can not be overstressed that draft resisters will probably never be able to return to the U.S. without risking arrest. This applies even to family emergencies. When a draft resister's father died last summer, two FBI agents showed up at the funeral.",Mark Satin,Moderate
The toughest problem a draft resister faces is not how to immigrate but whether he really wants to. And only you can answer that. For yourself. That's what Nuremberg was all about.,Mark Satin,Moderate
"FBI agents have told some parents that their sons can be returned.  This is not true.  Rumours have been circulated by U.S. authorities because there is no other way the government can keep young Americans from coming.  One recent AP wire had it that 71 ""fugitive warrants"" had been issued for young Americans in Canada.  The story implied that the warrants were valid in Canada.  They were not; they cannot be. ... Public officials, amateur draft counsellors, lawyers who do not specialize in draft work, and, unfortunately, the ""underground"" press are notorious sources of misinformation.  Read this handbook again and again, and contact a Canadian anti-draft programme if need be.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Not long after Miles and Eric hitch to St. Louis, Graham turns to me and says, ""Let's hitch to Chicago!"" ""Right now?"" I ask, peering up from my American government text. ""Why not?"" says Graham. ""You've got to learn to do things when you want to; otherwise you'll be just like one of the plastic people, the dead people."" So by one A.M. we are on the road. ...",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Scott wants us each to talk about ""the kind of society we'd like to live in."" ...  From the start I am very nervous.  Phil goes on about ""the redistribution of wealth""; nearly everyone comes out for ""socialism"" of one kind or another; Brick even hints at ""another revolution."" When it is my time to speak I am moved to say, ""I think people's tolerance is the main issue, even more than socialism.  I mean, look at the people who are for the war. Look at the courthouse square."" I am afraid to go on and say what I don't like about socialism. ...",Mark Satin,Moderate
"How long, Lord, O how long will it be before I can f--k someone like the girl sitting at the SDS literature table?",Mark Satin,Moderate
"""The subject,"" I say, suddenly unable to hold myself back any more, ""is the SDS leadership's alienation from its followers.  Not just here!  Not just you!""  Suddenly, horribly, I begin to sob.  You could have heard a pin drop as people waited for me to continue.  ""I didn't want to be an SDS leader!  And I don't think I've been a good one. But there's some things I'm proud of – .""  Finally I manage to turn and look at Jean. ""Why are you all so intolerant?  Why are you all so vindictive?  Why is it getting so that you only listen to people if they can quote from Father Karl or ... or Father Leon? ...  Why are we giving up on trying to develop an analysis of our own?  And for ourselves not just for others?  Why?  Why?""",Mark Satin,Moderate
"I turn out the kitchen light and sit down at the kitchen table, my head buried in my arms.  I try to tell myself that I feel sick from having had to write all those lies on my application.  I'd commit suicide if I really saw myself as Keith's ""assistant""!  But I know that isn't the half of it. ...  If I do ""choose to finish my B.A."" I'll end up like Keith.  But if I don't ""choose"" school I'll end up in Canada!  And if I don't ""choose"" either – wouldn't I end up in Vietnam?",Mark Satin,Moderate
"After dinner my father asks me into his study. ...  Then he slams the door so hard that I nearly jump out of the chair.  He tells me that he's been ashamed to invite anyone over since I ""came back"" because of my ""long"" hair and my clothes. ...  ""That's all right,"" I say after a tense silence.  ""I'm leaving for New York tomorrow.  And I'm leaving for Canada, as soon as I get my immigrant status!""  His expression breaks first.  He urges me to ""reconsider.""  I am afraid to say anything at all.  He says, ""Ever since you left home your life has been a series of blunders, and this is your biggest; your most fatal. ...  You tried to destroy society and you couldn't.  Really, you were trying to destroy me.  Now you're going to destroy yourself instead.""",Mark Satin,Moderate
"The politics we need in North America today will not and cannot come from liberalism or Marxism, or even from just muddling through.  The situation we're in is so new – so unprecedented – that we need a whole new way of looking at the world.  A whole new way of seeing things and thinking about things (especially political things).",Mark Satin,Moderate
"A new way of seeing and a new politics is arising already in bits and pieces, here and there, across the continent. ...  The new politics is arising out of the work and ideas of many of the people in many of the social movements of the 1970's: the spiritual, environmental, feminist, and ""men's liberation"" movements; the human potential, simple living, appropriate-technology, and business-for-learning-and-pleasure movements; the humanistic-transformational education movement and the new nonviolent-action movement. …  Each of these movements ... has something to add to the new politics.  Their contributions come together like the pieces of an intricate jigsaw puzzle.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"More and more of us have, over the last 10 years or so, become deeply involved in one or more of the movements mentioned above.  At the same time, though, the radical political movements of the 1969's seem to have collapsed.  Could there be a connection?  I believe that the radical political movements declined as soon as they began to promote a doctrine of us-against-them, of ""we have all the answers"", of separation rather than healing.  As soon as they began to promote a dogmatic Marxism that overstressed our need for things and tried to make us feel guilty about our deeper needs, which are emotional, psychological and spiritual (and which are what got us into the radical political movements in the first place).",Mark Satin,Moderate
"At the root of our troubles is a cultural complex whose six main elements make up a ""Six-Sided Prison"" that traps us all.  In Part I[,] I try to name and describe the six sides of the Prison: patriarchal attitudes, egocentricity, scientific single vision, the bureaucratic mentality, nationalism, and the big-city outlook.  Capitalism and socialism are, I argue, both rooted in the Prison (which predates capitalism by hundreds of years) – though neither needs to be.  (Racism, militarism, exploitation, ecocide, etc., are also rooted in the Prison.)",Mark Satin,Moderate
"In Part II I argue that the Prison is institutionalized by the ""monolithic mode of production"" which creates effective monopolies not for its brands but for its products ... institutionalized medicine; the universal, compulsory school; compulsory heterosexuality; ...  In Part III ... I propose a class analysis that sees us not as ruling-class, bourgeois or proletarian, but as life-, thing- or death-oriented. In Part IV ... I suggest that the new worldview implies four ""primary"" New Age ethics – the self-development, ecology, self reliance-cooperation and nonviolence ethics. ...  In Part V I try to suggest what ""New Age society"" might be like. ...  It would foster ""localization"" – community and regional decentralization (to whatever extent the various communities wished).  And it would foster ""planetization"" – planetary cooperation and sharing. ...  In Pat VII ... I argue for a strategy that would involve ... (a) healing self, and (b) healing society.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"You can't say that New Age politics is ""left wing"" or ""right wing"". It is perfectly compatible with public or private ownership of the means of production, and it speaks equally much to rich and poor, young and old, white collar and blue.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"There are two defining political choices that every society must make ... and neither of them is covered by the old political categories ""left"" and ""right"".  The first choice has to do with this.  Do we want our society to encourage us to seek rich individual experience and to be if service to others – or do we want our society to encourage us to seek material riches in the form of possessions and status? ...  The second choice has to do with this.  Do we want our society to extend state and institutional control over our lives (for whatever reason) – or do we want our society to encourage us to be self-reliant and self-determining?",Mark Satin,Moderate
"By [refusing] to work for a traditional revolution we would not be ""giving up the struggle"".  As we saw in the previous three chapters, we would be struggling – nonviolently – against the Prison [of consciousness] and its institutions, which are more responsible for the sterility of our lives (and our society) than ""human nature"" or ""capitalism"".  But even if we can't do any more than embark on the stage of self-healing, even if we can't get a strong group together, or if all our group efforts fail to heal society, we would still be learning to preserve our worth as human beings.  And that is an essential part of the political process today.  For without life-oriented people ... there can be no New Age evolution.  And only New Age evolution can take us off of the production-consumption continuum and out of the Prison.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"The First American Experiment began in the mid-1700s, and by its own criteria, at least, has been a smashing ""success"":",Mark Satin,Moderate
The participants in the Second American Experiment have differing views of the First Experiment.  Some ... think it was a noble and brilliant experiment that is no longer sustainable.  Others ... think it was ignoble and wrong-headed from the start. ...  But the larger point – and the point that concerns us in this book – is that all participants in the Second Experiment are convinced that the First Experiment is no longer wise.  Here are some of the questions they've been asking:,Mark Satin,Moderate
"Because of the consensus on full employment, certain observations rarely break in to the public political dialogue.  These include: ... that even if full employment were possible, it might not be desirable in the new kind of society we are entering; and that even today, most of the useful work we do is not structured into paying ""jobs.""",Mark Satin,Moderate
"There is an emerging alternative to the big government-big business-big labor kind of ""rebuilding"" of America.  Its basic strategy is to get investment capital out of the hands of the big banks ... and into the hands of the communities.  Its greatest champions are neither politicians nor oppositional political groups, but – remarkably – bankers; or, more specifically, those few bankers who describe themselves as ""community development bankers.""",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Typically, ""progressives"" and change agents have demanded more money for social programs.  But today it's clear that the way we do things needs to change – and that if things were done more appropriately, more humanely, more intelligently, we might end up spending less on social programs than we do now.  Take education ... .  Over the last 10 years or so, a handful of education reformers have ... come up with exciting new ideas for changing the ways our schools are administered, the ways our children are taught, and the kinds of things they're taught.  And nearly all their ideas would cost no more than our current practices cost.  Some would actually save us money!",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Thoughtful conservatives are not unattracted to holistic providers' emphasis on self-care and personal responsibility.  Thoughtful liberals and socialists are not unattracted to holistic providers' emphasis on environmental factors in disease.   But neither left nor right has ever acknowledged that the holistic health movement carries within it the seeds of a whole new approach to a national health care program for this country, with its own coherent ideas about finance, delivery, research and education.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"The U.S. could seek to acquire the moral authority to act as a healing presence in the world.  Our role could be to adjudicate disputes, support ""all-win"" solutions to international problems, and make our resources available to people, groups and governments that were willing to help themselves. ...  We could seek to play a catalytic, rather than a dominant, role in the Third World.  We could pay more attention to what the poor themselves want.  We could concentrate less on funding massive projects, and more on building up the capacity of indigenous institutions to do for themselves.  We could pay more attention to the context in which our aid is given.  This may be a highly unconventional approach to foreign aid.  But it could also be highly popular.  It combines the traditional left's emphasis on equity and the traditional right's emphasis on self-help.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"This article was written for those who believe that the spectrum of opinion is more like a circle than a straight line.  It was written for those who believe that each of the different perspectives on terrorism has something to add to the whole.  In this view, coming up with a solution to terrorism is not a matter of adopting ""correct"" political beliefs.  It is, rather, a matter of learning to listen – really, listen – to everyone in the circle of humankind.  And to take their insights into account.  For everyone has a true and unique perspective on the whole.  Fifteen years ago the burning question was, How radical are you?  Hopefully someday soon the question will be, How much can you synthesize?  How much do you dare to take in?",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Slowly at first, and now in growing numbers, from kitchen tables to nonprofit organizations to corporate boards, Americans are turning away from the politics of bickering and division and working on a new politics – a politics of creative problem solving.  It would have us take the best from the political left and right, and come up with something new that serves us all.  It would have us come up with solutions to public issues that are thoughtful enough, clever enough, and inclusive enough, to bring people and factions together.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Politics is stuck in America today.  We need to break through the stale debates and self-serving non-solutions that are coming from both political parties, and we need to do it without ending up at the ""mushy middle,"" where there's no direction or principle.  That's where the radical middle comes in.  The radical middle is an attempt to break out of that stuckness in a fresh and principled way.  It consists of everyone who's bold and yet savvy enough to want idealism without illusions – a fresh and hopeful vision that doesn't fall into the trap, as many leftists do, of looking back to chestnuts from the counter-culture of the Sixties and Seventies. ...",Mark Satin,Moderate
"The radical middle movement is phenomenally diverse.  But if you look at what everyone who might be called radical middle is saying and doing, you'll discover we share four goals.  I like to call them our Four Key Values:",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Put these values together and you can see how the radical middle draws holistically on our entire political tradition.  Each value is a sort of updated version of an aspect of our 18th-century political heritage – liberty, equality, happiness, and fraternity, respectively.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"The caring person is the carrier of radical middle politics. ...  To see this clearly, it helps to look at three competing archetypes of the Good American. ...  Self-aggrandizers are ambitious strivers.  They get their primary identity from their occupation and the social status associated with that. ...  Self-sacrificing individuals are not personally ambitious – and when they are they try to hide it.  They get their primary identity from their ethnic, racial, or religious affiliation or sexual orientation. ...  Caring persons may or may not be personally ambitious, but they want their jobs to provide them with opportunities for personal growth and social relevance.  They get their primary identity from the lifestyle choices they make and the values they consciously choose.  They are equally committed to personal freedom and social justice, self-development and social change.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"If Thomas Jefferson is the liberals' (and libertarians') Founding Father, and George Washington is the conservatives', and Tom Paine is the radicals', then Benjamin Franklin is the radical middle's.  He was extremely practical. ...  At the same time, he was extraordinarily creative. ...  He was a man of principle. ... Yet synthesis and healing were an art with him.  He became our most ardent champion of religious tolerance.  And better than anyone at the Constitutional Convention, he was able to get the warring factions and wounded egos to transcend their differences and come up with a Constitution for the ages.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"If done right, biotechnology can enhance the entire world's well-being.  And that's why the radical middle is drawn to it.  One of our key value commitments is maximizing human potential. ...  Although the biotech debate may seem hopelessly polarized, a third voice – nuanced, hopeful, adult – has begun to be heard.  Call it the voice of cautious optimism.  Call it the voice of the radical middle.",Mark Satin,Moderate
We need mandatory national service so we will all take part in performing the collective tasks we know are ours.  We need mandatory national service because duty and honor are as necessary to us as oxygen and water.  That's what I was trying to tell the Army in my application to the JAG corps at the age of 52.  And that's what the radical middle needs to tell the American people.,Mark Satin,Moderate
"For most of the 20th century, small radical groups were seen as social change incubators.  The various socialist and communist parties, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), and a thousand local or regional variants were where it was at. ...  But we live in a knowledge society now – a world that depends increasingly on professional expertise and special skills.  If we want to change that world, we'll need to be even more expert and skilled than those who'd defend the status quo.  That's why professional schools, not radical groups, are our social change incubators now.  And radical middle social change agents know it.  Many of the most idealistic and dedicated of them have been pouring into our graduate schools, including our great medical, business, and law schools.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"This new edition of New Age Politics – stripped-down and updated for the 21st century – has been launched to reassert, in thunder, that the movements of our time have generated a perspective or ideology of their own. It's as coherent an ideology as liberalism or Marxism – and far more relevant to our needs as life-loving human beings on a finite planet. In other words, New Age Politics gives us a common ground on which to stand.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"I'd do some things differently if I were writing this book from scratch today. I would be more nuanced in the history sections. I'd be less inclined to see everyone at ""Self-development Stages Six and Seven"" as the cat's meow. Above all, perhaps, I would emphasize that some of what I call ""monolithic institutions"" are evolving (i.e., are being shoved by us) in a positive direction today – so I'd bend over backward to encourage immersion as well as resistance. We need transformers everywhere, inside ""The System"" as well as outside it. But even with such ""flaws"" (mainly the flaws of youth), I think New Age Politics is still the best single expression of the new politics as a coherent, systemic, integral whole.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Lorian Press could have simply reprinted the first edition of New Age Politics, from 1976. I liked its length (only 50,000 words), it covered almost all the ground I do here, and I wanted to prove to you that the perspective I synthesized – the perspective of many people in the social change movements of today – goes back to the Nixon-Ford era, when the traditional left and right both lost their way. It was not spontaneously generated by any single social movement of the last 40 years. Rather, all our movements have been re-inventing, adding to, and deepening a perspective that already in the 1970s stood as our only real alternative to More Of The Same.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"What Keys, Laszlo, Falk, and many other New Agers arte proposing … could be called a ""planetary guidance system."" ...  A planetary guidance system would regulate the world, not run it. ...  Does this chapter strike you as impossibly idealistic?  In 2011, Parag Khanna of the New America Foundation argued that a decentralized planetary guidance system is currently arising outside the confines of the United Nations.  To Khanna, it consists of an ever-changing (depending on the issue) array of representatives of governments, non-governmental organizations (nonprofits), corporations, super-wealthy individuals, and universities.  Although Khanna, a buttoned-down radical centrist, doesn't use terms like ""synergic power"" and ""win-win approach,"" it is obvious from his text that that's exactly how (some of) these entities are beginning to operate in the global context.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"Few political authors employ the term New Age anymore; however, ... many use equivalents or near-equivalents such as communitarian, evolutionary, green, holistic, integral, post-socialist, radical centrist, spiritual, transformational, and transpartisan, and that's OK. Perhaps the new generation, not being ego-attached to any of these, will finally come up with a term we can all say ""Aha!"" to.",Mark Satin,Moderate
"These 100 books do not agree on everything – and that's OK too. You don't need total agreement when you're an open-hearted, decentralist, experimentalist New Ager. After the Prison and its institutions lose their hold over us, you won't even want such agreement. Within the parameters of certain life-affirming values, you'll want a hundred flowers to bloom. Synergy is all; cooperation and coordination is all.",Mark Satin,Moderate
