Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
"I love women, but they're primitive. They're not hard to understand.",Tucker Carlson,Right
"I think Michael Moore is loathsome, though, not because he dislikes Bush, but because he seems to dislike America.",Tucker Carlson,Right
Don't take a leak on my shoes and tell me it's raining.,Tucker Carlson,Right
"STEWART: No, this [CrossFire], it's theater. Like, take this for example. How old are you?",Tucker Carlson,Right
Jon Stewart on CrossFire,Tucker Carlson,Right
"Grover Norquist is a mean-spirited, humorless, dishonest little creep… an embarrassing anomaly, the leering, drunken uncle everyone else wishes would stay home… [He] is repulsive, granted, but there aren't nearly enough of him to start a purge trial.""",Tucker Carlson,Right
"""I think it’s a total nightmare and disaster, and I’m ashamed that I went against my own instincts in supporting it (the U.S. war in Iraq).  It’s something I’ll never do again.  Never.  I got convinced by a friend of mine who’s smarter than I am, and I shouldn’t have done that. No. I want things to work out, but I’m enraged by it, actually.""",Tucker Carlson,Right
"Maybe in fact it was better to have Saddam in there. Maybe Saddam, as bad as he was-was not the worst we could get. Maybe chaos was the worst we could get. That's the truth...I mean, look, no matter how you feel about Bush, watching him speak is difficult. It's like— it's like watching a drunk man cross an icy street.",Tucker Carlson,Right
"There may be countries worth invading, but I don't think we'll be invading them...It's almost impossible to make the case that Bush is a conservative.  That may be good; that may be bad...I think [Pat] Buchanan is far too easily and glibly dismissed...The Republican Party of 2005 bears no resemblance to the Republican Party of 1994",Tucker Carlson,Right
From the 15 December 2005 edition of MSNBC's The Situation with Tucker Carlson:,Tucker Carlson,Right
,Tucker Carlson,Right
"You know what gets women going is arguing with them,It's true. It's true. You debate politics with a woman and just go—just full blown out there, especially feminism. If you're talking to a feminist, and she's giving you, ‘Well, men really need to be more sensitive,’ (say) ‘no, actually, men don't need to be more sensitive, you just need to be quiet and kind of do what you're told.’..I love women, but they're primitive. They're not hard to understand. And one of the things they hate more than anything is weakness in a man.",Tucker Carlson,Right
"BUBBA THE LOVE SPONGE: Fine people of Canada, please understand that Tucker is a very good friend of mine, but I in no way, shape, or form share his views of how he feels about people from Canada. I love Canada. They're great people up there. Tucker feels that you guys are a bunch of assholes.TUCKER CARLSON: I totally disagree. If I didn't like Canada, I wouldn’t consider it worth invading. I mean, Iraq is a crappy place filled with a bunch of, you know, semiliterate primitive monkeys -- that’s why it wasn't worth invading.THE LOVE SPONGE: Keep burying yourself.CARLSON: But Canada's a solid place with good-looking women and good fishing. We should invade.",Tucker Carlson,Right
"These are the people who write our movies and our sitcoms,They are not shocked by naughty words. They just pretend to be when it’s useful. It’s been very useful lately..Since the day we went on the air they’ve been working hard to kill this show..we will never bow to the mob. Ever.",Tucker Carlson,Right
