Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
There's a war on for your mind!,Alex Jones,Right
"If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.",Alex Jones,Right
"THAT'S THEIR PLEASURE MuHAA, THEIR PLEASURE! Well I'm not gonna give them their pleasure. I'M GONNA CRAM A GUN IN THEIR MOUTH TO SEE HOW THEY LIKE IT! CAUSE I'M FREE! And it's been in my family history to fight! And I'm not your slave, so get it straight and we're ready. YOU CAN NERVE GAS US ALL DAY, WE'RE READY TO ROCK!",Alex Jones,Right
"I grew up in Dallas, Texas, drinking sodium fluoridated water. All the scientific studies show my IQ has been reduced by at least 20 points. The shadow of who I would have been calls out from the grave.",Alex Jones,Right
"Just men in black uniforms grabbing a fifty five-year-old uh you know woman just choking ah you're gonna learn who we are you're gonna learn to submit the foreign bankers have given us unlimited power and we're gonna rule you this is our country your here and WE'RE GONNA FEED ON YOUR ASS!,  AND THE COPS JUST DRINK FLUORIDE WATER, AHHH THEY TAKE THEIR KIDS AND JUST SHOOT 'EM UP WITH MERCURY and the kids become autistic the cops don't care they're I'm GOING TO THE TIT BAR I don't care if my kids brain-damaged they drink whiskey and wreck and kill everybody in Austin and then when they wreck and kill themselves the cops then go and SWAT team the bar owners that sold them too much whiskey it's your fault you sold too much whiskey to a god. YOU DON'T SELL TOO MUCH WHISKEY TO A GOD! We're God! You understand we roll America; we'll shoot you in the face, we'll bloody your face, and we'll laugh about it because we're weak gang members.",Alex Jones,Right
"And now they love it, they can abuse and beat up everybody and nobody can stop 'em. Nobody can stop 'em! They're having their way with America! They want our guns! And if you're not with 'em cops and military, then you will declare that you are with the Republic now. And don't tell me that I'm a weirdo 'cause I'm upset about this, and I should only go get upset about my favorite football team winning or losing. Listen, I know what tyranny means, I know the bankers are putting poison in our food and water. I know the bankers have stolen 8.5 trillion. I know we're under the War Powers Act. I know they're hurting us, I know they're carrying out New Word Order, I know they staged those terror attacks. You know what it's like to gut up to this and go out every day and go past the peer pressure and come out day one and say 9/11 was an inside job and lose most of the radio stations I was on? You know what it's like to go to sleep every night knowing you work for a bunch of psychotic killers, and you bastards are probably gonna end up killing me one day?! You know what it's like knowing you've ruined my life?! You know what it's like, you sons of bitches?! I'm tired of your crap! You commit evil, you're part of an evil system, and we're standing up against you! And the Republic is going to defeat you in the end! Some of us won't make it personally through this, but a lot of us are. And in the end you are gonna be brought to justice for all the kids you kidnapped for CPS, all you CPS workers, all you corrupt bureaucrats, all of you that've had your way with innocent children over and over again, who think your evil is invincible, you're not invincible and God is gonna deal with you, and you are cursed to hell!",Alex Jones,Right
I see through your lies Barack Obama you WICKED WICKED DEVIL!,Alex Jones,Right
"I'm like a chimpanzee, in a tree, jumping up and down, warning other chimpanzees when I see a big cat coming through the woods... I'm the weirdo? Because I'm sitting in a tree going ""OOH OOH AAH AAH AAH OOH AAH AAH OOH OOH OOH AAH AAH AAH AAH AAH!""?",Alex Jones,Right
The reason there are so many gay people now is because it's a chemical warfare operation. I have the government documents where they said they're going to encourage homosexuality with chemicals so people don't have children.,Alex Jones,Right
"Look, when you realize how fake it all is; the football, the basketball, the Lady Gaga, the Justin Bieber—you know, who gives you these carbon tax messages. They tell your kids they gotta love Justin Biebler [sic], and then Biebler [sic] says ""hand in your guns"", ""pass the Cyber Security Act"", and ""the police state is good"", and then your children are turned into a mindless vassals—who now, they look up to some twit, instead of looking up to Thomas Jefferson, or looking up to Nikola Tesla, or looking up to Magellan; I mean, kids, Magellan is a lot cooler than Justin Bieber! He circumnavigated with one ship the entire planet! He was killed by wild natives before they got back to Portugal! And when they got back there was only like eleven people alive of the two hundred and something crew and the entire ship was rotting down to the waterline! That's destiny! That's will! That's striving! That's being a trailblazer and explore! Going into space! Mathematics! Quantum mechanics! The secrets of the universe! It's all there! Life is fiery with its beauty! Its incredible detail! Tuning into it! They wanna shutter your mind, talking about Justin Bieber! It's pure evil! They're taking your intellect, your soul, and giving you Michael Jordan and Bieber. Unlock your human potential! Defeat the globalists who wanna shutter your mind!—Your doorways to perception!—I wanna see you truly live! I wanna see you truly be who you are!",Alex Jones,Right
"Stop feeling like you don't have power. Stop feeling pathetic and weak. Break out of your television-induced trance. It starts with a war growl. It starts with getting fired up, staring at yourself in the mirror, and showing some teeth, and saying ""I'm a human being. I have dignity. I'm gonna resist. I'm gonna start recognizing the propaganda. I'm gonna break free from it. I'm not gonna fight with my family. I'm gonna organize with my family, and realize we're under attack by the social engineers. And I'm not gonna fight with my neighbors. We're gonna organize. Humanity's gonna come together."" AAAHHH! YAAAHHH! We know we're under attack! We know it! We're breaking the conditioning! YAAAHHH! RAAAHH! We're coming for ya globalist. Coming for ya! Coming for ya! We know what you're doing! I'm sorry. I just get fired up when I think about what they're doing to us and how I wanna resist them, and how easy they are to defeat. Excuse me. I think my testosterone's going up. This happens every time I start working out a lot again. And I, uh, swam two miles this morning pretty hard, and uh, ate a big fat steak steak last night full of horomones, testosterone, on its own right. So I'm going a little bit wild today, excuse me.",Alex Jones,Right
"Scum, nazi, filth, trash, garbage, maggots. We're all ruled by little chicken-neck nellies, going ""Kill everybody! I get off when I talk about cutting people's power off! I'm a nelly!"" RAARGH! Just simpering control freaks, in big nerd packs, taking everything over, ruling everything. Becoming police officers with weapons, tasering us for fun. I've had it with control freaks and scum! You people are cancer! Ugh! Alright, I'm not in a good mood now. I start thinking about Bill Gates, that little chicken-neck, hopping around, little murdering eugenicist. You know how he walks, like a demonic elf. ""I'm Bill Gates! I'm gonna shoot you up with something that's gonna kill you deader than a hammer. How's a 30 year death from gut disease sound, African children? Roll up the sleeves! I'm a little chicken-neck bastard, and nobody's got the will to see what I am!""",Alex Jones,Right
"I believe from history and my own gut, instinct, that if I go ahead and lay it all out here, what we're really facing, you've got courage and you've got will, and you're gonna get angry and stop caring. It begins with not caring about what your slack-jawed knuckle-dragging cowardly pseudo tough-guy football-watching neighbor thinks. Okay? That's where it begins. It begins with not caring what happens to your individual person. And when you have that attitude, when you have that attitude, then the enemy doesn't have anything over you anymore. Stop being gelded domesticated garbage. Stop being weak! And when you see a threat coming down on you, deal with it! Become a human again! Stop being weak! We have a bunch of criminals coming down on us. God, ugh! Murdering scum. I wanna get humanity awake. I wanna get our forces up. And I wanna bring these people to justice. And you know what I mean. You know what I mean! I wanna unleash humanity, not have a bunch of con artist pot-bellied chicken-neck pieces of garbage running our world! More importantly they act like effeminate cowardly chicken necks cuz they want to train you to act like that they want to train you to be weak they want to train you. That's a nasty taste coming up in my mouth. Tastin' those globalists. I can taste their fear and their weakness. I taste metal, I taste blood.",Alex Jones,Right
"I tell you we're gonna get people awake to you you bastards and we're coming for ya we're coming straight for ya and you know it that's why you're so scared that's why you're moving so fast now, and you just better keep doing that dance, cuz you can feel that flame of rebellion starting to lap up and lick right up there oh yeah oh boy.",Alex Jones,Right
"All the average feds care about is dressing up in black uniforms and having mustaches and starring at people... I know your mustache is cool! You got little gold-framed glasses! You scare me so bad! Ugh... you scum! Scum! ... What's driving me crazy is that photo right there, zoom in on that, it's one of those cops with a black uniform with a mustache. You know that guy is a coward! You know he's a piece of garbage! You know he's weak! Oh! ... Oh, you got a mustache, I'll just worship you. Oh, you got a mustache, it's okay! Ugh, your demonic little mustaches!",Alex Jones,Right
"Chicken-neck weakness is like a god now. And being totally passive, and being a huge jellyfish slacker who looks like a fried egg in a chair. That is the culture of this, okay? The worship of being destroyed. Literally, I've now discovered the secrets of it. ... And everyone's wearing like pink and little green non-threatening, you know, colors, and this is what we face. This is what men look like now, on average. In fact, I used to bash men who were all into being big and muscular with tattoos and black on and going ""raagh"", now I get it! You don't wanna be like these people! Okay? I used to get mad at guys trying to act tough—no, no! That's good! Do that! In fact, I think I'm gonna just go all out with cut-off sleeves and drive a big fast car and be like ""graagh"", 'cause I mean I'm starting to get it! Men are running to that, because they see the armies... literally men in pastels... Now there's men everywhere wearing dresses, I'm telling you! It's like, they're just like ""New World Order, slaughter me, please!"" And the New World Order is like ""Act like a jellyfish coward and giggle at all reality"", and they're like ""Yes, yes!""",Alex Jones,Right
HuAHHHHHHHH MURDER AFRICA! INVASION FORCE! RELEASE US!,Alex Jones,Right
"I'm telling you folks, nerds are one of the most dangerous groups in this country, because they end up running things. But they still hate everybody, because they weren't the jocks in high school. So they play little dirty games on everybody. They use their brains to hurt people. And I'm aware of them. OK? I see you, you little rats!",Alex Jones,Right
"Hitler took the guns, Stalin took the guns, Mao took the guns, Fidel Castro took the guns, Hugo Chávez took the guns. And I am here to tell you, 1776 will commence again if you try to take our firearms! It doesn't matter how many lemmings you get out there on the street begging for them to have their guns taken; we will not relinquish them, do you understand? That's why you're going to fail, and the establishment knows, no matter how much propaganda, the Republic will rise again when you attempt to take our guns!",Alex Jones,Right
How about Prozac? ... The U.S. number one cause of [unnatural] death is suicide now because they give people suicide mass murder pills. ... I want to get people off pills that the insert says will make you commit suicide and kill people! I want to blame the real culprit—suicide pills! Mass murder pills!,Alex Jones,Right
"[in a British accent] Oh, they're so royal! We're lucky to have them coming here. But the rabble undoubtedly will be violent. Scum protesters– Oh, these insane people imagining the helicopters landing and the troops– these insane schizophrenics have come to town. The rabble– I'm so glad– thank God we're elite enough to have them though. I'm so honored. [switches to Cockney accent] Get back there mate! I'll have to have you arrested and have you deported! We're protecting criminals inside, busy stealing our pension funds and overrunning the country with third world populations. Now get back, you Yankee scum! HA HA! To show you the power of the Royal Guard Brigade! And this is the scotch we've been coughing down! Look at that pumpkin-headed Yank! That's the one, Alex Jones! I want you to know, young man, we will be watching you continually while we protect the Transhumanists putting cancer viruses in our children's shots!",Alex Jones,Right
"Hey listen, I'm here to warn people, you keep telling me to shut up! This isn't a game! Okay? Our government, the US, is building FEMA camps. We have an NDAA where they disappear people now. You have this ""arrest for public safety"", life in prison. It's basically off with their heads, disappear 'em, take 'em away. Infowars dot com. Liberty is rising. Liberty is rising! Freedom will not stop! You will not stop freedom! You will not stop the Republic! Humanity is awakening! Infowars dot com! No, you guys are crazy, thinking that the public's too stupid! You're crazy, thinking the public doesn't know! You're crazy, thinking the public isn't waking up!",Alex Jones,Right
"If I'm in, you know, especially in a poor area, and I see guys walking like they're thugs down the street, I don't care what color they are, I go ""That guy looks like they're a thug, and looks like they're tough, okay... If they try to shake me down I'm gonna ignore them and keep walking, and if they come up to me and try to put a hand on me, I'm gonna punch 'em right in the throat. 'Cause I don't wanna jump on top on of 'em and hurt my knees and stuff, when I slam their head in the ground. Plus, I don't wanna kill 'em. 'Cause then I'd have to go to jail and stuff, and they'd have to find that it was done in self defense. Been down that road."" So, I'm sitting there and I'm thinking, ""Alright. I'm gonna punch this guy in the throat."" I'm thinking how hard am I gonna punch him. And I'm not thinking he's a black guy. I'm thinking the guy's walking like a thug, thinks they're tough, and I'm thinking about how I'm going to defend myself. Just like when I've been at the Coast, a few years ago, and walk out of a restaurant in South Padre and they're having a biker rally—and it wasn't like a nice biker rally, most rallies are nice people—it was like thug wannabes, rode up with a motorcycle...and were looking at me, and I was thinking ""Okay. Alright. That guy is taking his helmet off. I'm gonna punch him in the throat the minute he tries to get up and do something, and then I'm gonna assault those next three guys. Then they'll probably pull a weapon. I need to take that."" I mean, that's what I'm thinking whenever something like that is going on. I can't help it. I'm thinking, ""Alright, I'm ready to kill."" That's just how I am. And I'm thinking, ""Alright. Okay. Instantly assess these guys. These are probably ex-con, real criminals. I've got my three kids here. That gives me, you know, just turbo dinosaur power. And I'm thinking, ""Control yourself. Don't have a fight, unless you absolutely got to."" You know, the man in me is ready to take all on! and... you know what I'm talking about, don't you? ARGH, you scum! I hate gang members and filth! And it has nothing to do with black people. But I will stump your head in if you start a fight with me, you thug scum! Anyways, excuse me ladies and gentlemen.",Alex Jones,Right
"Do you know what goes on at Skull & Bones? I have a family audience, so I can’t say it. They have sexual rituals– some of the most ancient Egyptian rituals– where they believe they are possessed by entities. Basically, space aliens.",Alex Jones,Right
,Alex Jones,Right
Parasites will be crushed I can taste your weakness crushing crushing crushing.,Alex Jones,Right
"It took me about a year with Sandy Hook to come to grips with the fact that the whole thing was fake. I mean, I couldn't believe it. I knew they jumped on it, used the crisis, hyped it up. But then I did deep research and my gosh, it just pretty much didn't happen.",Alex Jones,Right
"You’re weak! Your gods weak!""",Alex Jones,Right
"What do you think tap water is? It's a gay bomb, baby. And I'm not saying people didn't naturally have homosexual feelings. I'm not even getting into it, quite frankly. I mean, give me a break. Do you think I'm like, oh, shocked by it, so I'm up here bashing it because I don't like gay people? I don't like 'em putting chemicals in the water that turn the freakin' frogs gay! Do you understand that? I'm sick of being social engineered, it's not funny!",Alex Jones,Right
"Bernie wants us to live under the heavenly socialist–communist system like China. We never hear the left criticize that Mao Tse-Tung killed over 80 million people—the Chinese government admits—biggest mass murder in history. That's why there's so many liberal trendy places in Austin, in Denver, in New York, in LA, and San Francisco named after Mao. And people go and love play on their iPhones and the free market and their Chinese slave goods, and they drink beer and expensive wine and giggle about how fun it is to wear red stars. You couldn't put more bad luck on you, you couldn't trash your mojo better. Wearing swastika armbands, you stupid snot-nosed crud! That live off the backs of everybody that fought Nazism and Communism. You need to have your jaws broken! Don't you worry, reality is gonna crash in on you, trash! Who lowered our defenses and brought the Republic down; oh, we're already gone! And you celebrate it like you've joined the globalists mounting America's head on the wall, your great victory! A mass rape of women across Europe. The national draft coming in for women! The families falling apart! Women degraded into nothing but sexual objects! ALL in the name of Gloria Steinem and the Central Intelligence Agency program! And a Bernie Sanders with his fake Einstein hair, and his 'I'm a man of the people!' We go out and talk to Bernie Sanders' supporters, they can hardly talk—they're like him—'Free! Free! I want free stuff!' As if the New World Order is gonna give you anything free! Oh, it's free like a piece of cheese. And a little mouse comes out and it smells it and goes to bite it and, WA BAM! Breaks your neck. But your stupider than the little mouse. You can see all the countries and all the people caught in the mouse traps, caught in the big bear traps. You know what you do? You go into a trendy shop. On some capitalist strip. And you go in and you snuggle in with that credit card that daddy put money in for the trust fund. And you put on that little fur-rimmed coat and you're all sexy with your hammer and sickle on, and your Che Guevara and, you know, shirt from Rage Against the Machine, and the whole capitalist record company system selling it to you, and you go out on the street and you walk into McDonald's and you have yourself a double latte, oh yeah. Pathetic! Scum! Oh, how you'll burn in the camps, later. Wishing you had done something; I mean, you are the ultimate chumps, the ultimate buffoons, the ultimate schmucks! ... But the public had so much freedom! They were so wealthy, even our poorest, they had no idea that what they were replacing it with was abject slavery.",Alex Jones,Right
"Imagine you live in a world that's totally plastic. Who are your enemies, if you're evil? The Patriots. We are the future. We are the leaders. WE ARE 1776! We are those that were given the mantle and the birthright by George freakin Washington and Thomas Jefferson. They've taught you to not know who they are, or hate them. No, they were renowned around the world. George Washington for weeks had dysentery and lost about a third of his weight and climbed around in freezing ice with his men where they would go on marches at night and they'd lose 10-15 people just in one battalion freezing to death to at dawn battle the Germans three to one in places like Trenton, in 30 below temperatures and 20+ mile marches, in the dark, with men dying all around them, and George Washington, with diarrhea running out of his pants, on top of that horse, MARCHING TO KICK ASS! MARCHING NOT TO GIVE UP! TAKING ACTION! THAT'S WHO WE COME FROM! And we let all these HUNCHBACK SCUM rule us - I WILL NEVER SUBMIT TO YOU! AND THE HUMAN SPIRIT IS RISING! YOU WILL NOT TURN US INTO ANIMALS! YOU WILL NOT POISON US ANYMORE! - You will NOT kill us! OUR SPIRIT TRANSCENDS ALL YOU'VE DONE TO US!",Alex Jones,Right
"It’s the Devil. The churches aren’t going to tell you. It is an alien force, not of this world, attacking humanity like the Bible and every ancient text says, and you can read the Bible, it’s hiding in plain view. It’s not of this world. And I don’t know exactly what it is or what it’s doing, but this is not human intelligence, OK? IT'S NOT HUMAN INTELLIGENCE WE""RE FACING! I REFUSE TO FIGHT WITH EVERYBODY. ALL THE STUPID RACIST WHITE PEOPLE, ALL THE STUPID RACIST BLACK PEOPLE, ALL THE STUPID RACIST MEXICANS. ALL OF YOU. I CAN'T STAND YOU, YOU'RE IDIOTS. WE'RE UNDER ATTACK. EVERYBODY'S UNDER ATTACK. The elite hate Trump. Let me tell you, if he is a psy-op, he is the most sophisticated one I ever saw. And even if he is, he is a revelation of the awakening and they have to pull this trick to try to divert us. It doesn’t matter, it’s part of the awakening. Humanity has got to get off-world. We need access to the life-extension technologies. Talk about discrimination, forget skin color. I want the advanced life-extension! I want to go to space! I want to see interdimensional travel! I want what God promised us and I won’t sit here and watch Satan steal it! That’s the fight! That’s the key! That’s everything!",Alex Jones,Right
"What do I do lord? [in a demonic voice] *""Destroy the child, corrupt them all.""* This is their plan people. These are demons. Just like the Bible says. Basically an intergalactic invasion into this space through people. I...I...I'm telling you it's what the ancients said. It's what they warned of. It's what we're dealing with. They're demons. They're freaking inter dimensional invaders. Okay, i'll just say it. Make fun of me all you want on CNN or whatever but everyone already intimately knows this. These people are not freaking humans, okay. Hillary Clinton is a god damn demon.",Alex Jones,Right
"All I know is, whether they're interdimensional demons, whatever they are-... Let's just say that's an allegory, all I know is it's the same thing. Psychopaths operate, they're not human, I don't like them. Okay?! And my very humanity is like *RAAAAAAA LET'S TAKE THEM ON, WANNA FIGHT? YOU'RE GONNA GET ONE-* .. You.. You inhuman soulless pieces of trash. I see you real good. And I know our species is stronger than you and better than you, we're gonna beat your ass. Get that through your head.",Alex Jones,Right
You're a big fat bully scumbag! And i don't like you!,Alex Jones,Right
"I'm a pioneer, I'm an explorer, I'm a human, and I'm coming. I'm animated, I'm alive, my heart's big, it's got hot blood going through it fast. I like to fight, too! I like to eat! I like to have children! I'm here! I've got a life force: This is a human, this is what we look like, this is what we act like, this what everybody was like before us, this is what I am, I'm a throwback. I'm here! I've got the fire of human liberty! I'm setting fires everywhere, and humans are turning on everywhere.",Alex Jones,Right
"It is surreal to talk about issues, here on air, and then word-for-word hear Trump say it two days later.",Alex Jones,Right
"The West is only a destabilization program right now. We aren’t to that point yet, but in Sweden and Germany and France they’re putting ads on saying, “You are demoralized. You are dead. You are over. Give up to the hijab. Give up to Muhammad and Allah! Allah Akbar! We’re gonna stab your daughter at the mall! We’re gonna to stab your wife, your son, we’re gonna stab you with a butcher knife!” And then the police chief is going to get up and say, “We love our Somalis. We love our Muslims. Oh they’re so good. Oh they’re so sweet.”",Alex Jones,Right
"I will go to hell before I sit here and watch this country and the world turned over to these savages! I'm done, I'm pissed, and I'm not putting up with it anymore! Let me tell you something, you filthy traitors in the government, you pieces of crap.You are the most degenerate, twisted, mentally ill people I've ever seen, wanting to gang-rape this Republic and this country and the West that has been the literal cornerstone, the absolute jewel in the crown of free Western Renaissance societies and the very best literature, music, technology, science, medicine, culture the world's ever seen!You Satanists wanna to sacrifice the West! You wanna to kill the beautiful goddess that is the West! You people are enemies, and we're going to get your asses, and we know what you're up to, and we're coming for you!",Alex Jones,Right
"Let me tell all the scum and all the leftists: you’re going to lose all of your jobs soon. The whole mainstream media is dying. We’re going to be in a huge Depression. You’re going to be living in your mothers’ basements. And I hope your little fake liberal culture you’ve got that’s totally fascist and Satanic — I hope it keeps you warm at night because that’s all you’re going to have, and it’s all you’re ever going to have. Okay? I just hope you understand that.",Alex Jones,Right
"Sometimes the VULGOTH, the VULGAR, the BARBARIAN WAY is the way to say it... I want to say something, I'm a lover. And that's why I'm a fighter. And I love my family and I love justice so much I'm willing to do whatever it takes to stop you. And I hate your stinking guts, I can smell you from a thousand miles away, and you smell like failure, you smell like hell, and I want to thank the God of the Universe that I'm not with these people I, oh, I get tears in my eyes to GOD that I'm thankful everyday that I don't come from filth like you that want to trample on humanity, thank God I'm not a degenerate filthy vampire like you. And I guess in the final equation, as upset as I get watching you hurt the innocent; that's what matters is that you'll NEVER, DEFEAT THE HUMAN SPIRIT!  YOU'LL NEVER DEFEAT GOD! YOU'LL NEVER WIN! NEVER! NEVER EVER! NEVER! And the spirit of humanity is rising and it is gonna defeat you. You think you're strong? You think you're scary? You try to mimic what you can only imagine in your mind is God's Wrath and God's Wrath coming for you and you deserve EVERYTHING that happens to you trash... ...the reason the enemy's so mad is he knows he's a loser... ...And this is where we get tested, SO REJOICE TO GOD ALMIGHTY FOR THIS ANIMATING CONTEST OF LIBERTY! AAAAAAGGNNNGGHHHUUUGGHHH.",Alex Jones,Right
"We have scored a direct STAB in those sons of bitches' hearts! We gotta 'er keep runnin' the knife in though folks, gotta keep runnin' it in there, not worrying if they're doing dodges just Raarrrgghh!. You want the fight!? You're getting it! YOU WANTED TO OVERRUN US, AND POISON US, AND TAKE OUR FAMILIES, AND KILL US!?!? YOOOOUUUU WILL DIE, NOT US! YOU ANTI-HUMAN CRAP!",Alex Jones,Right
THE AGE OF COWARDICE IS COMING TO AN END. THE AGE OF MEN WILL RETURN.,Alex Jones,Right
"I'm never a lesser of two evils person, but with Hillary, there's not even the same universe. She is an abject, psychopathic, demon from Hell that as soon as she gets into power is going to try to destroy the planet. I'm sure of that, and people around her say she's so dark now, and so evil, and so possessed that they are having nightmares, they're freaking out. Folks let me just tell you something, and if media wants to go with this, that's fine. There are dozens of videos and photos of Obama having flies land on him, indoors, at all times of year, and he'll be next to a hundred people and no one has flies on them. Hillary, reportedly, I mean, I was told by people around her that they think she's demon-possessed, okay? I'm just going to go ahead and say it, okay? They said that they're scared. That's why when I see her when kids are by her, I actually get scared myself, with a child -- with that big rubber face and that -- I mean this woman is dangerous, ladies and gentleman. I'm telling you, she is a demon. This is Biblical. She's going to launch a nuclear war. The Russians are scared of her.",Alex Jones,Right
"""She sleeps in the same room with that creepy weirdo woman, Huma Abedin who's mother wears a hood over her head and writes top articles in the world, promoting cutting women's genitals off what the hell? That woman, number ones ugly, and evil, but but imagine if your like ""Oh what does your mom do?"" ""Oh shes a top genital mutilation pusher, I'd be like Ewwww, get the hell away from me, yeah but Hillarys into like  creepy weird sick stuff man, just disgusting with flies all over her big fat stinking. Imagine how bad she smells, man? I'm told her and Obama, just stink, stink, stink, stink. You can't wash that evil off, man. Told there's a rotten smell around Hillary. I'm not kidding, people say, they say -- folks, I've been told this by high up folks. They say listen, Obama and Hillary both smell like sulfur. I never said this because the media will go crazy with it, but I've talked to people that are in protective details, they're scared of her. And they say listen, she's a frickin' demon and she stinks and so does Obama. I go, like what? Sulfur. They smell like Hell.",Alex Jones,Right
"The animated contest of liberty is waiting for you, but you’ve got to take it in your hands. You’ve got to have a will to accept the truth and buck the system and the group collective. Do that and you’ll earn your way to the next level. This is the info war.",Alex Jones,Right
"Aaaeeh aaah MURDER THE CHRISTIANS reeeeuhhhh DESTROY EVERYTHING just rughhh... I mean you know this drunk is bleeeugh but still stumbling forwards, MORE BLOOD loeooaoohh as she falls down, they go our God must be lifted back up guuagh aeeeeeghehhah MORE BLOOD OF THE INNOCENT hahahaha sell the baby parts, arrest the reporters that expose we're keeping babies alive, heat the hospitals with their bodies, have the Pepsi taste testing systems be based on fetal tissue ALL DEMONIC SYSTEMS, GENETICALLY ENGINEER ALL THE CROPS, OVERTHROW CREATION, MORE BLOOD, oaohhgahgh loeooogh. That's Hillary.",Alex Jones,Right
"A coup de grâce. a götterdämmerung battle. oh its a twilight of the gods alright, these would-be gods of the new world order. they're no gods at all. ragnarök.",Alex Jones,Right
"I came knocking on your door a million times, and you laughed at me. You've been in love with something else your whole life, and this is a love-affair. And so, I'm not gonna get in bed with you. Because you don't love the spirit of justice. You loved your father, the Devil. You loved death. More than life. So you go with your father forever. And that's hell - separation from god. You go.",Alex Jones,Right
"Sandy Hook is a synthetic completely fake with actors, in my view, manufactured. I couldn't believe it at first. I knew they had actors there, clearly, but I thought they killed some real kids. And it just shows how bold they are, that they clearly used actors.",Alex Jones,Right
"When I think about all the children Hillary Clinton has personally murdered and chopped up and raped, I have zero fear standing up against her. Yeah, you heard me right. Hillary Clinton has personally murdered children. I just can't hold back the truth anymore. Hillary Clinton is one of the most vicious serial killers the planet's ever seen.",Alex Jones,Right
"In fact, let me say this right now. Let me tell -- I’m not against gay people. OK. I love them, they’re great folks. But Schiff looks like the archetypal cocksucker with those little deer-in-the-headlight eyes and all his stuff. And there’s something about this fairy, hopping around, bossing everybody around, trying to intimidate people like me and you, I want to tell Congressman Schiff and all the rest of them, “Hey listen asshole, quit saying Roger and I” -- and I’ve never used cussing in 22 years but the gloves are off -- “listen you son of a bitch, what the fuck’s your problem? You want to sit here and say that I’m a goddamn, fucking Russian. You get in my face with that I’ll beat your goddamn ass, you son of a bitch. You piece of shit. You fucking goddamn fucker. Listen fuckhead, you have fucking crossed a line. Get that through your goddamn fucking head. Stop pushing your shit. You’re the people that have fucked this country over and gangraped the shit out of it and lost an election. So stop shooting your mouth off claiming I’m the enemy. You got that you goddamn son of a bitch? Fill your hand.” I’m sorry, but I’m done. You start calling me a foreign agent, those are fucking fighting words. Excuse me.",Alex Jones,Right
He’s sucking globalist dick.,Alex Jones,Right
JUST TAKE THE RED PILL PEOPLE!,Alex Jones,Right
It's over for the globalists. BREAK THE CONDITIONING NOW!,Alex Jones,Right
"Whatever they do to me, I'm a man. I'm not sittin' up here like I'm the biggest badass around, but you punch me and I'ma punch back (subdued snarling). And I can sit back and tell you my family name is secured, and I've done the job I'm supposed to do. It's not some power trip, it's just who I am. I look at Stephanopoulos and all these sacks of shit, sittin' there telling us they're gonna leave the country. Listen you son of a bitch. You're scared this country's gon' throw your carpetbaggin' ass out. I see you, you little bloodthirsty maggot. Whatever happens to me I just pray to God you get brought real low. Real low. For what you've done you little son of a bitch. So you understand one thing. There's a real world out there. There's a real God there's a real Devil. For every action there's an equal and opposite reaction. And I want all the little men to know somethin'. You were brought up as pieces of shit. And you thought you could dominate everybody 'cause you were so insecure. And you thought people that were better than you were bad because they were better than you, and they were building a stairway to heaven for you. And so now you've started fights with people, that are gonna break every bone in your body. So when you have metaphysically have had you sternum broken and your ribs broken, and your little neck... Strung up. You remember. You ran into real men. And we kicked your ass.",Alex Jones,Right
"God! These people are so evil! Why can’t America wake up and beat ‘em! Donald Trump’s not perfect but he doesn’t wanna hurt you and your family. “Hillary and Obama want to make you poor and pathetic! We have all their white papers! “They hate you! They hate prosperity! They hate God! They hate children! And god damn them to hell! We’re going to find the lever to beat these people, and they’re gonna be beat! Look at her shark face! Having to look at her with her demon face! [shouts] That’s a freakin’ demon! [shouting] “We’re gonna have President Linda Blair people! [screams] And I’m not gonna go along with it!”",Alex Jones,Right
"I never expected Trump charging into a goblin’s nest to not get some goblin vomit and schlop and blood on him. I just don’t want to catch him in bed with a goblin. But if he’s in there rolling around hacking ‘em up and he’s got a goblin guide, y’know, taking him into the cave, I’m not expecting him to not get dirty, especially up to his ankles. I don't want to see him kissing goblins, having political succubus with goblins, I don't want to see him ingratiating goblins...""",Alex Jones,Right
"I CAN'T GO TO HOUSTON WITHOUT THEM COME AFTER MY GENITALS, EH THE TSA PERV﻿",Alex Jones,Right
,Alex Jones,Right
"I'm civilized, I don't take a crap in the pool.",Alex Jones,Right
"As giant third world hordes just pour in, raping everyone just Reaghhhhhh, reaghhhh! Just sexualizing our children, ruling everything, debasing the currency, drugging the food and water giving everyone cancer and just dancing to their god of death, selling body parts, chopping up babies that battle the scalpel. I mean it's just... it's just on HELL ON EARTH, THE GATES ARE OPENING. And out will flood the armies...",Alex Jones,Right
"It's the same story, over and over again! The same dependency, the same slugism, that we see mirrored all around us. Hated by the people, WE BUILD! HATED BY THE PEOPLE WE EMPOWER! HATED BY THE PEOPLE WE'VE GIVEN LIFE TO! HOW DO YOU THINK GOD FEELS!?...they they think they're all in competition with me and all this crap. I'm not in competition with any of you people! I'M IN COMPETITION WITH THE DEVIL. I'M IN A DEATH BATTLE! AND NOW YOU SEE THE ENEMY SAY THEY'RE IN A DEATH BATTLE, THEY KNOW THEY'RE IN A DEATH BATTLE, ONLY THE SPIRIT, OF KNOWING YOU'RE IN A DEATH BATTLE WILL HAVE YOU WIN! I don't know how all this is gonna end, but like I've told 'em a thousand times, YOU WANTED A FIGHT, BETTER BELIEVE YOU'VE GOT ONE. YOU WANT TO ENSLAVE MY SPIRIT, NO! AND I'LL CALL ON GOD TO PROTECT ME, AND USE ME HOWEVER GOD SEES FIT. AND IF I'M DESTROYED AND MY WHOLE FAMILY WITH IT, I DON'T BLAME GOD. I BLAME THE STINKIN' TRASH. WHO WILL PAY. Now. And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. Tormented by their own spirit.﻿",Alex Jones,Right
"We're turning into a bunch of self-centered walking dead TRASH ,,, and we're such ZOMBIES! We're such self-centered crap that we don't even notice Hell itself rising up against us.",Alex Jones,Right
WHERE IS THE ANIMATED CONTEST OF LIBERTY?,Alex Jones,Right
"Listen bitches, you may force feed Eddie Bravo a bunch of CNN - Fox News shit every morning, but you're fucking getting The Joe Rogan experience up your fucking ass.",Alex Jones,Right
YOU WANT A WAR? YOU BETTER BELIEVE YOU GOT ONE!,Alex Jones,Right
"There are real people. There are people that ain't out to get you and your family. There's real people ready to fight! And all you scumbag pedophiles the rest of ya, you wanna fight!? Get ready, you're gonna get it assholes!...TURNING LOOSE ON 'EM﻿!",Alex Jones,Right
"All across the world, humanity knows you’re the enemy. We’re going to get you assholes, just know that. It doesn’t mean we’re perfect but we’re not out to screw women and children and hurt people. You understand that, assholes? You hate humanity because you project your own hatred of yourself on us, assholes. You want to kill us, how about you die? Kill your fucking selves you fucking globalists!",Alex Jones,Right
"Alec Baldwin thinks he is a tough guy, I challenge him a million dollars to the charity he wants to get in the ring with me, bare knuckle. I will, I'll do it right now. I'll get in the ring with you and I will break your jaw, I will knock your teeth out, I will break your nose, and I will break your neck. You coward, you think you're tough guy, messing with little cameramen people. You want to sit there and defame me and the president? Get in the ring with me, I will break your jaw in seconds. I will smash your nose into a bloody pulp, and I will whack your teeth out. My fists are going to bleeding with your teeth marks all over em. You frickin' bully, you coward. I hate you, my listeners hate you and remember that, scumbag, forever. Heh heh heh heh. We're going to defeat this anti-human scum, we're going to wreck their world.",Alex Jones,Right
"Out of the sewer, literal vampire pot bellied goblins are hobbling around coming after us!",Alex Jones,Right
"You're supposed to get on your knees at midnight or in the early morning and tell God you repent on things you've done. You don't tell in a football stadium, “Mainstream media: you're my God, I am bad, tell me what to do.” That is sick.They're kneeling to political correctness and hating white people. They're kneeling to white genocide --- and then I don't want anybody to be genocided (sic). But everywhere it's: “Kill the whites, kill the whites.” The universities: “No whites can come on campus.” It's a bunch of weird white people going, “We need to kill all the white people.” Just everywhere. Hillary: “We lost because of white people.” It's the most racist, weird, anti-Martin Luther King crap I've ever heard. Martin Luther King  would say, “You people are crazy.”",Alex Jones,Right
"​​Most of the so-called liberal lesbians and all these groups, they just want to have the guy with the duck's ass haircut and the James Dean outfit. The truth is, James Dean wasn't slapping girls around, but they want to be the ones slapping the girls around. And statistically, it shows it. I'm not blaming all lesbians, but it shows that most of these butch lesbians, they want to be the guy smacking the hot chick around. They think that's manly. And a lot of the chicks, they like it. See, because no man will do that to them. And I'm not saying it's good if a man does that, but some women like it. And if they can't find a man to smack them around, well they found them a girl going to do it real good. Knock them upside their head, and have 50 Shades of Gray about the sexy rich guy that's going to chain you up. Of course, you're going to get chained up one time. They're going to put that devil mask or that piggy mask on. They're going to say, ""Now I'm going to torture you for about six weeks, so start begging for your mommy and your daddy."" That's the liberals. They want to get you in a dungeon. They want to strap you down and take a buzzsaw and cut the top of your head off like a pumpkin and pull it off and get a little spoon and go -- when you're looking in the mirror, this is one thing I know they like to do -- and they go, I'm going to eat your brain now. Let's start -- let's start at the side areas here, because we don't want to take away your sight at the back or your thinking in the front. I'm going to eat your cerebral cortex last, because I've got power. I love Satan, and I'm going to suck you dry, and I'm going to torture you to death.",Alex Jones,Right
What is that joke? What is that? What IS that? What is Hitler? What is Stalin? What is Mao? What is ALL this stuff? What is Venezuela?,Alex Jones,Right
"But just look at [Brian] Stelter again. Put him on screen. I think that's all the broadcast should be, is just a photo of Stelter smiling. Ugh. Ugh. Oh my gosh. Oh, hell on earth. He wants to run your life. He wants to control every aspect of your life because he knows he is a cowardly degenerate sack of anti-human trash. I pledge before my heavenly father that I will resist them every way I can. These people are the literal demon spawn of the pit of hell. Look at him. And you know what, he is better than you if you keep letting him run your life. He runs your kids, he runs the schools, he runs the banks. This guy, this spirit, this smiling, leering devil that thinks you can’t see what he is. He is your enemy. Period. All the narcissistic devil-worshiping filth. I see you enemy. I see you enemy. Enemy. Enemy. You are my enemy. And I swear total resistance to you with everything I’ve got. Disingenuous, fake, false, brokeback, twisted, a defiler, a betrayer, a back stabber, a devil. You will pay. Yeah, you don’t think I see your face, scum? You don’t think I don’t see you, Stelter? I see you, you understand me? I know what you think of me and my family. I see you right back. You understand that? You understand that, Stelter? [Grunting noises] Stelter. You will fall. You will not bring humanity down. God is going to destroy you. Get him off the screen. [Crying] Oh, God, they’re so evil. Just please God, free us from them. They’re drunk on our children's blood for God's sake.",Alex Jones,Right
"Hitler took the guns. Stalin took the guns. Mao took the guns. You know, 'political power grows out of the barrel of a gun.' And then if another crazy person everybody knew was going to attack goes and kills some people and then I'm to blame and all gun owners are to blame? Well, if somebody runs somebody with a car are they all to blame? Or somebody with a baseball bat? This is common sense and you've got a young high school senior teenager cussing to get attention to pull a stunt but none of use are supposed to talk about it because if you respond to him calling you a piece of this or a piece of that or his cohorts calling Dana Loesch a murderer and people are chanting 'burn her', well then you're a bully. That's why CNN wants to use this to kill the First Amendment, not just the Second Amendment! You have YouTube banning videos with guns, with citizens having guns or showing guns, but Hollywood and the video game makers can show all the guns they want. This is an incredibly discriminatory system!",Alex Jones,Right
Donald Trump shit his fucking pants at the fucking moment of truth and shit all over everybody. That’s my first approximation. I’m not in a fucking cult for Donald Trump. Fuck him. Fuck his family. Fuck all these people.,Alex Jones,Right
"God fucking damn it, man. What the fuck? Is there nobody fucking pure in this goddamn fucking world? See, I’m fucking pissed right now. Syria fought Al Qaeda, they fought ISIS, they fought it all, and now you’ve got [James] Mattis and fucking all these people shitting all over us.",Alex Jones,Right
"They said if you just turn against Trump it would be better, but he was doing good, and that's what makes it so bad... If he had been a piece a crap from the beginning, it wouldn't be so bad. But we made so many sacrifices. And now he's crapping all over us.",Alex Jones,Right
"""There's no video of president Trump sucking a ding dong. And so what if there was, that's a lot better than World War III Owen. I never sucked any ding dongs, but I'll tell ya if they were going to black mail me to start World War III about one, I'd say hey, I sucked a ball golf ball through a frickin garden hose!",Alex Jones,Right
"I like women, not men! And if I liked men, I’d be proud of it and have a lot of em. But I ain’t never been in bed with no man. I’ve been in bed with probably 300 women.",Alex Jones,Right
"He says 'Alex Jones and the white supremests are saying go to the people's houses and kill the parents, and we have to take him off the air because he says kill the parents, there's no free speech for killing parents' and I'm like 'dude, do not say that, I'm gonna get killed'. I mean, I've never said nobody died at Parkland, and I sure as hell didn't say 'kill their parents'",Alex Jones,Right
,Alex Jones,Right
"I mean, how do I get a fair trial with stuff like this? I’ve never said this guy’s name. Never said his name, until now. And obviously first it’s ""we don’t know, he’s got gunshot wounds or whatever."" Now it’s, well, apparent suicide.I mean, is there going to be a police investigation? Are they going to look at the surveillance cameras? I mean, what happened to this guy? This whole Sandy Hook thing is, like, really getting even crazier.We have no idea whether he was even murdered at this point. Why would some anti-gun guy do this? This is really sad. My prayers go out to him and his family and we wish for the truth of whatever really happened here to come out. We don’t know yet. And we’ll see the corporate media say outrageous lies, but it’s what they do. And look, the good news of no collusion, the good news that I’m not a Russian agent comes out, and now this happens right on time. Just amazing.",Alex Jones,Right
