Quotes,Author,Political Orientation
"The ideal I advocate is the creation of a White Ethno-State on the North American continentToday, in the public imagination, 'ethnic-cleansing' has been associated with civil war and mass murder (understandably so). But this need not be the case. 1919 is a real example of successful ethnic redistribution — done by fiat, we should remember, but done peacefully.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"need to start thinking about a new ethno-state that we would want to be a part of. This is not going to happen in the next election or in the next 10 years probably, but something in the future that would be for our great grandchildren",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"Martin Luther King Jr., a fraud and degenerate in his life, has become the symbol and cynosure of White Dispossession and the deconstruction of Occidental civilization.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"Ours, too, should be a declaration of difference and distance—""We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created unequal."" In the wake of the old world, this will be our proposition.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
Identity is the most important question to answer. Who are we racially? Who are we historically? Who are we in terms of our experience? Who are we in terms of our community?,Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
anime porn—has done more to advance European civilization than the Republican Party.,Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
A nation based on freedom is just another place to go shopping.,Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"Leftists (who sometimes understand us better than we understand ourselves) have always sensed this; they know that when we talk about immigration, we’re not really talking about immigration.For us “immigration” is a proxy for race. In that way, immigration can be good or bad: it can be a conquest (as it seems now) . . . or a European in-gathering, something like White Zionism.  It all depends on the immigrants. And we should open our minds to the positive possibilities of mass immigration from the White world.And when White men talks about “restoring the Constitution”—or, more so, “Taking Our Country Back”— leftists and non-Whites are right to view this as threatening and racialist: it implies a return to origins and that the White man once owned America.Today, in the public imagination, “ethnic-cleansing” has been associated with civil war and mass murder (understandably so).  But this need not be the case.  1919 is a real example of successful ethnic redistribution—done by fiat, we should remember, but done peacefully.The ideal I advocate is the creation of a White Ethno-State on the North American continent.We must give up the false dreams of equality and democracy—not so that we could “wake up"" to reality; reality is boring—but so that we can take up the new dreams of channelling our energies and labor towards the exploration of our universe, towards the fostering of a new people, who are healthier, stronger, more intelligent, more beautiful, more athletic.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"I wouldn’t want to go back to the old white nationalism when no one was listening to us,” he said recently. “I want to be in a place where our ideas are entering the mainstream.”",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"Hail Trump! Hail our people! Hail victory!America was, until this last generation, a white country designed for ourselves and our posterity.  It is our creation, it is our inheritance, and it belongs to us.The white race is ""a race that travels forever on an upward path.""To be white is to be a creator, an explorer, a conqueror.""We don’t exploit other groups, we don’t gain anything from their presence. They need us, and not the other way around.I do think we have a psychic connection, or you can say a deeper connection, with Donald Trump in a way that we simply do not have with most Republicans.I think we can be the ones out in front, thinking about those things he hasn't quite grasped yet, who are putting forward policies [that] have a realistic chance of being implemented.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"As Europeans, we are, uniquely, at the center of history.Think of the concepts that are now designated “problematic” and associated with whiteness -- power, strength, beauty, agency, accomplishment. Whites do and other groups don’t.For us, it is conquer or die. This is a unique burden for the white man, that our fate is entirely in our hands.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"German National Socialism is a historic movement of the past. It arose at a very particular time and had particular motives and ideas and policies and styles, and those aren’t mine",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
You could say that I am a white Zionist in the sense that I care about my people. I want us to have a secure homeland for us and ourselves. Just like you want a secure homeland in Israel,Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"I've been critical of the American founding throughout my career.No individual has a right outside of a collective community. You have rights, not eternally or given by God, or by nature.Ultimately the state gives those right[s] to you. The state is the source of rights, not the individual.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
"Automation...the White Death...deindustrilization. Trump throws bombast and bluster at the problem. Andrew Yang sees the problem for what it is and offers understanding, sympathy, and solutions. Everyone should take this man and his ideas seriously.",Richard Bertrand Spencer,Right
